Add straw man for key bound signed statements (#9)
ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-scrapi: draft-birkholz-scitt-scrapi.md

abbrev: SCRAPI
docname: draft-birkholz-scitt-scrapi-latest
stand_alone: true

> submissionType: IETF

Author: ```suggestion
```

ipr: trust200902
area: Security

> submissiontype: IETF

Author: ```suggestion
submissionType: IETF
```

# SCITT Reference REST API

## Key Binding Confirmation

In cases where a signed statement is issued by one party and registered by another,

> there is a need to prove posession of key material and detect tampering while authenticating both parties.

Reviewer: Nit on formatting. We've been following one sentence = one line for code review clarity, as opposed to ~80 character, line wrapping. 
Can you fix for consistency?

Author: done

Typically a nonce would be chosen by the transparency service and the second party would sign over the nonce,
when registering the first issuer's signed statement.

In order to avoid interactivity and improve interoperability,

> the document describes a mandatory to support confirmation scheme, for use with confirmation methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
document describes a non-exclusive, but mandatory to support, confirmation scheme
```

Assuming you intended that it be a base line ?

In this scheme the verifier's challenge is a recent unix timestamp,

> party need not

Reviewer: incomplete sentence...

Author: fixed by reverting

> and the registering party need no request this information from the transparency service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
party need not
```

Here is an example key binding token that can be paired with the confirmation claim in a signed statement:

~~~json
{
  "iat": 1698077790,
  "aud": "https://transparency.example",
  "nonce": "1698077790"
}
~~~

> When applying registration policies to signed statements with confirmation, the transparency service acts as a verifier, and performs the following checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applying registration policies to signed statements with confirmation, the transparency service MAY act as a verifier, performing the following checks:
```

1. verify the integrity of the issuer's signed statement

> 2. confirm the verified content meets the registration policy for the transparency service.

Reviewer: please make all numbers 1. and let markdown formatting resolve incremental numbering. If someone inserts a new item, the rest won't need to change.

Author: done

3. verify the key binding token, using the confirmation claim in the verified issuer signed statement

> 4. ensure the key binding token has a nonce that is a string representation of a recent unix timestamp.

Reviewer: nit for markdown consistency
```suggestion
4. ensure the key binding token has a nonce that is a string representation of a recent unix timestamp
```

> The exact window of validity for proving possession is a configuration detail of the transparency service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exact window of validity for proving possession is a configuration detail of the transparency service. unix timestamps are used so that only a losely synchronised notion of time need be assumed and there is no requirement to account for timezones
```

If the confirmation key is stolen, the attacker can produce key binding tokens from that point forward in time.
In an interactive confirmation schema, the transparency service can force the confirmation key holder to produce a signature over a nonce that is not guessable, and this prevents certain attacks related to the duration of access to a signing capability and other timing details. However, the cost of coordinating with the transparency service, coupled with the purpose of registering with a transparency service (to obtain a receipt, proving a signed statement was acceptable at a point in time) justify specifying the recent timestamp nonce as a manadatory to implement context binding.

> 

Reviewer 2: It feels like there should be some way to indicate the 'quality' of the nonce scheme. I'm not sure I can make a useful suggestion as to how tho

Author: perhaps a good question to ask the OAuth list.

> In an interactive confirmation schema, the transparency service can force the confirmation key holder to produce a signature over a nonce that is not guessable, and this prevents certain attacks related to the duration of access to a signing capability and other timing details. However, the cost of coordinating with the transparency service, coupled with the purpose of registering with a transparency service (to obtain a receipt, proving a signed statement was acceptable at a point in time) justify specifying the recent timestamp nonce as a manadatory to implement context binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an interactive confirmation schema, the transparency service can force the confirmation key holder to produce a signature over a nonce that is not guessable, and this prevents certain attacks related to the duration of access to a signing capability and other timing details.
However, the cost of coordinating with the transparency service, coupled with the purpose of registering with a transparency service (to obtain a receipt, proving a signed statement was acceptable at a point in time) justify specifying the recent timestamp nonce as a mandatory to implement context binding.
```

In the case that a SCITT transparency service wants to support challenges (nonces) that are context binding,
the transparency service can expose a "challenge token endpoint".

This endpoint can process request paramters, and issuer a challenge token, that future regsitrations can use to bind to the original request.
This interaction model works well for scenarios where requirements for a given regsitration might change over time, but it is important for the registering party to commit to acceptable values at the time that a signed statement is registered. These endpoints are optional to implement.

> 

Reviewer 2: I particularly like the qualification re commiting at the time the statement is registered.

### Challenge Endpoint

#### Request

> ~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~http
```

Author: ^ does this work? (impact spec rendering / supported by kramdown-rfc)

```http
POST https://example.com/entries
```

apparently, this is a thing, and the current examples are malformed.

GET <Base URL>/registration/challenge?intention=....
~~~

#### Response

- Header: `Content-Type: application/json`
- (Optional) Header: `Retry-After: <seconds>`
- Body: `{ "token": "JWT | SD-JWT | base64url( CWT | SD-CWT )>" }`

### Registration Endpoint

#### Request

> ~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~http
```
